
Esencja gry

Checkers is a two-player game with each player possessing 12 checkers, of either blue or red. The objective is to capture the opponent's checkers or immobilize them.


Plansza

The board consists of 64 tiles being an 8x8 grid where checkers are primarily located as displayed at the beginning of the game.


Rozpoczęcie gry

The first player to move is determined randomly. Then each player takes a single turn, which cannot be skipped whatsoever.


Jak grać


A player can move his checker forward diagonally to a free tile 1 tile at a time.

Capture

Making a "jump" or capture is mandatory if possible. When a tile diagonal to the player's checker in any direction is occupied, and when a tile further is empty, the player must "jump" over the rival's checker and land on the empty tile, which results in the opponent's checker being removed from the game.

Multiple captures

Whenever, after a jump, a checker is able to jump again, it has to - all in the same turn. Whenever presented with a multitude of jump opportunities, the player is able to choose a specific jumping path (multiple or not).

The King

If a checker reaches the last rank on the board, either by a move or a jump, it becomes a king, and that completes the turn. A king can move, or jump, in any diagonal direction, 1 or more tiles per turn. A king can only jump over 1 checker at a time, to any empty tile behind it. Multiple jumps are applicable to kings too.



Time restrictions

1 turn can last for up to 2 and a half minutes, after which a player is forced to forfeit the game if either he has not done anything or did not finish a turn.

Conditions of Ending


Win

The game is won, if: 

The player has captured the opponent's checkers,
The player has rendered the the opponent immobilized,
The opponent has declared defeat

Loss

The game is lost if a player is unable to continue the game in any manner.

Draw

The game results in a draw when no capture or promotion to king happens in 30 consecutive moves.

